README.md, before:

Project status - experiment. May change at any time without notice.

# Wagtail Single Page Application Integration

This project provides some tools for using Wagtail as an API only CMS that a JS application will consume.

It was designed to work with angular-wagtail - but works without Angular if you provide the client integration.

## Features

- Wagtail Redirect API
- Preview button support (requires saving draft, unlike typical Wagtail)
- Get page detail view by html_path (faster than find_view's redirect and more compatible with non-browser platforms)
- Exclude pages by explicit site and/or page type
- Supports multiple wagtail sites
- Only adds features, does not break compatibility with Wagtail V2 Pages Endpoint
- Nothing in this package is Angular specific, you can roll your own JS client to work with this.

# Usage

- Install from pypi `wagtail-spa-integration`
- Add `wagtail_spa_integration` to INSTALLED_APPS
- Ensure API is registered by following [Wagtail's API docs](https://docs.wagtail.io/en/v2.5.1/advanced_topics/api/v2/configuration.html). Use `wagtail_spa_integration.views.SPAExtendedPagesAPIEndpoint` instead of Wagtail's PagesAPIEndpoint.
- Add the redirect API view in your urls.py as you would for any rest framework ViewSet `from wagtail_spa_integration.views import RedirectViewSet`
- In settings.py add `PREVIEW_DRAFT_CODE = "anything"` to use the preview feature.

## Multiple wagtail sites

Wagtail itself can support a base API url and multiple "sites" For example:

- api.example.com is the default site where wagtail runs
- burkesoftware.com is one site served by wagtail
- passit.io is another site served by the same wagtail instance

This set up would require multiple Wagtail Sites and each Site needs it's own page.

- api.example.com's page should be a child of the wagtail root page and be set as the default Site.
- burkesoftware.com's Homepage should be a child of the api.example.com page and have a Site.
- passit.io's Homepage should be a child of the api.example.com page page and should have a Site.

`WAGTAILAPI_BASE_URL` must be set in settings.py so that the API shows the correct `detail_url` in the API.

## Usage with Angular

Follow instructions on [Angular-Wagtail](https://gitlab.com/thelabnyc/angular-wagtail).

## Usage without angular-wagtail

Review the angular-wagtail project and reimplement it's logic. Essentially you'll need to make a page router that loads pages from the api and connects wagtail pages to your view layer. For example a wagtail page HomePage would need to be connected to a JS HomePageComponent.

It's not likely that I'll be developing other integrations, but if you make an integration for your favorite JS framework I'd be happy to note it here. Angular happens to be a good fit because we can expect certain resources to be available (Router Module, transfer state, etc).

Commit message:

Add sitemap with site query param support

README.md, after:

Project status - almost stable. 1.0 will arrive soon along with change logs and semantic versioning.

# Wagtail Single Page Application Integration

This project provides some tools for using Wagtail as an API only CMS that a JS application will consume.

It was designed to work with angular-wagtail - but works without Angular if you provide the client integration.

## Features

- Wagtail Redirect API
- Preview button support (requires saving draft, unlike typical Wagtail)
- Get page detail view by html_path (faster than find_view's redirect and more compatible with non-browser platforms)
- Exclude pages by explicit site and/or page type
- Supports multiple wagtail sites
  - Adds explicit site query parameter to wagtail sitemap.xml function
- Only adds features, does not break compatibility with Wagtail V2 Pages Endpoint
- Nothing in this package is Angular specific, you can roll your own JS client to work with this.

# Usage

- Install from pypi `wagtail-spa-integration`
- Add `wagtail_spa_integration` to INSTALLED_APPS
- Ensure API is registered by following [Wagtail's API docs](https://docs.wagtail.io/en/v2.5.1/advanced_topics/api/v2/configuration.html). Use `wagtail_spa_integration.views.SPAExtendedPagesAPIEndpoint` instead of Wagtail's PagesAPIEndpoint.
- Add the redirect API view in your urls.py as you would for any rest framework ViewSet `from wagtail_spa_integration.views import RedirectViewSet`
- In settings.py add `PREVIEW_DRAFT_CODE = "anything"` to use the preview feature.

## Multiple wagtail sites

Wagtail itself can support a base API url and multiple "sites" For example:

- api.example.com is the default site where wagtail runs
- burkesoftware.com is one site served by wagtail
- passit.io is another site served by the same wagtail instance

This set up would require multiple Wagtail Sites and each Site needs it's own page.

- api.example.com's page should be a child of the wagtail root page and be set as the default Site.
- burkesoftware.com's Homepage should be a child of the api.example.com page and have a Site.
- passit.io's Homepage should be a child of the api.example.com page page and should have a Site.

`WAGTAILAPI_BASE_URL` must be set in settings.py so that the API shows the correct `detail_url` in the API.

### Sitemap support

If may be useful to explicitly request a sitemap.xml for a specific site. `from wagtail_spa_integration.views import sitemap` adds a query parameter `site` for this. Use it exactly as you would wagtail's sitemap. Then add a query parameter like `example.com/sitemap.xml?site=2`.

## Usage with Angular

Follow instructions on [Angular-Wagtail](https://gitlab.com/thelabnyc/angular-wagtail).

## Usage without angular-wagtail

Review the angular-wagtail project and reimplement it's logic. Essentially you'll need to make a page router that loads pages from the api and connects wagtail pages to your view layer. For example a wagtail page HomePage would need to be connected to a JS HomePageComponent.

It's not likely that I'll be developing other integrations, but if you make an integration for your favorite JS framework I'd be happy to note it here. Angular happens to be a good fit because we can expect certain resources to be available (Router Module, transfer state, etc).
